=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::Manual::CommandLine - Fennec Command Line Tools.

=head1 COMMAND LINE TOOLS

=over 4

=item fennec_init

    $ cd projectroot
    $ fennec_init
    $ ls t
        t/Fennec.t

This commandline tool will generate a default Fennec.t file under the t/
directory. This is where you start when writing a test-suite using fennec.

=item fennec_prove

    $ fennec_prove - - [prove options]
    $ fennec_prove t/My/Test.pm - [prove options]
    $ fennec_prove t/My/Test.pm test_name [prove options]
    $ fennec_prove t/My/Test.pm line_number [prove options]

This is a wrapper around prove that lets you run a specific fennec test file,
and optionally a specific test name or line number within that file. Running a
specific line number is not 100% accurate, but pretty close.

=item fennec_run.pl

This is identical to the default t/Fennec.t file. It can be used to run fennec
tests in a project without a t/Fennec.t.

=item fennec_scaffold.pl

This will create test modules for all modules that do not currently have a
test. It will find all modules under lib/ and create a test under t/. The
created test file will have a single require_ok( module_name ) test.

Test names are assumed to follow the standard format. t/ will mirror lib/, and
test module names will be the same as the module being tested. Package names
will be the name of the tested package prefixed with TEST::. If you deviate
from this style fennec_scaffold.pl will not find your test files and will
assume they do not exist.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
