=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::Manual::Running - Tips for running fennec

=head1 ENVIRONMET VARIABLES

=over 4

=item FENNEC_SEED=integer

Should be an integer, when present it will be used as the seed for the
randomization of tests. This can be used to reproduce the order of tests
multiple times.

=item FENNEC_FILE=path/to/fennec/test

If present fennec will only run the specified test file.

=item FENNEC_ITEM="line number"

=item FENNEC_ITEM="testset or workflow name"

Will only run the specified workflow or testset name, may also specify a line
number. When given a line number, fennec will attempt to find the item defined
accross that line number. Use of line number is an imperfect process at the
moment.

=back

=head1 LINE NUMBER GOTCHA

Fennec maps groups and workflows based on their starting line number. If you
specify a line number before the number returned by L<B> then the group or
workflow defined before it will be chosen.

A general rule is that the first non-codeblock statement within the item will
be the first line number for the group/workflow.

In this example line 2 will be considered the first line of the 'example a'
test group.

    1: tests 'example a' {
    2:     my $x = 'x';
    2: }

In this example line 5 is the line returned by L<B> when checking the line
number for the test group 'example b'.

    1: tests 'example b' {
    2:    thing_that_takes_code_block {
    3:        ...
    4:    };
    5:    my $x = 'x';
    6: }

=head2 Future fixes

=over 4

=item L<http://github.com/exodist/Fennec/issues#issue/39>

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
