=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::Manual::Standalone - Writing stand-alone fennec tests.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is documentation for a standalone test, that is a test that does not
require anything outside each test file. This is perfectly acceptable, but not
ideal. You should also read L<Fennec::Manual::Tests> for more information on
writing Fennec tests.

A consequence of standalone tests is a loss of parallelization, and the
overhead of loading fennec for each standlone test. When fennec is used to
manage a suite it is loaded only once, and it can parallelize running of both
test files and test groups.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 t/mystandalone.t

    #!/usr/bin/perl;
    package TEST::MyStandaloneTest;
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use Fennec::Standalone;

    # If the module specified is not installed all tests will be skipped
    use_or_skip 'Module::Name';

    # See Fennec::Manual::Tests for more tools
    tests hello_world_group {
        ok( 1, "Hello world" );
    }

    #done_testing must be called at the end of your workflow declarations
    done_testing();

    1;

=head2 Breakdown

=over 4

=item package TEST::MyStandaloneTest;

Fennec tests must all be contained inside test packages, they will be used as
objects.

=item use Fennec::Standalone;

Use the standalone fennec package.

=item tests name { ... }

You should also read L<Fennec::Manual::Tests> for more information.

=item done_testing()

Fennec runs your test groups and workflows after the package is loaded. In
normal Fennec tests done_testing() is not necessary. However in Standalone
tests fennec needs a trigger to tell it that the workflows are ready to be run.
I appologise for this boilderplate, but it is safer than an END block.

=back

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

=over 4

=item TESTS

L<Fennec::Manual::Tests> - Examples of different fennec tools.

=item FENNEC BASED TEST SUITE

L<Fennec::Manual::TestSuite> - How to create a Fennec based test suite.

=item MISSION

L<Fennec::Manual::Mission> - Why does Fennec exist?

=item MANUAL

L<Fennec::Manual> - Advanced usage and extending Fennec.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
