=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::DeveloperManual::Files - Writing Custom File Loaders.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package Fennec::FileType::MyType;
    use strict;
    use warnings;

    use base 'Fennec::FileType';

    sub valid_file {
        my $class = shift;
        my ( $file ) = @_;
        ...
        return $bool;
    }

    sub load_file {
        my $self = shift;
        my $file = $self->filename;
        ...
        return $package;
    }

    sub paths {qw( t/ ... )}

    1;

=head1 METHODS

You must implement the following methods.

=over 4

=item $bool = $class->valid_file( $filename )

Return true if the given filename is a valid file of the type you expect.

=item $package = $obj->load_file()

Must load the test file. This must also make sure that a package name is
generated for the file. When finished the method must return the name of the
package for the test file. This package must also be a subclass of
Fennec::TestFile.

=item @list = $obj->paths()

A list of paths, relative to the project root, in which to search for test
files.

=back

=head1 USER DOCUMENTATION

User documentation is for those who wish to use Fennec to write simple tests,
or manage a test suite for a project.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual>

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
