=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::DeveloperManual::Handlers - Writing Custom Result Handlers.

=head1 OVERVIEW

Handlers are very simple, they are the final destination for Output objects,
including results. When Fennec is started one or more handlers will be
instantiated. Every output generated will be sent to the parent process which
sends the object to each of the handlers.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Here is a very basic, and not very useful output handler.

    package Fennec::Handler::MyHandler;
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use base 'Fennec::Handler';
    use Data::Dumper;

    sub init {
        my $self = shift;
        ...
    }

    sub start {
        my $self = shift;
        print "Fennec started\n";
    }

    sub handle {
        my $self = shift;
        my ( $output ) = @_;
        print "Fennec generated output, here it is:\n";
        print Dumper( $output );
    }

    sub fennec_error {
        my $self = shift;
        my ( $msg ) = @_;
        print "Fennec experienced an error: $msg\n";
    }

    sub finish {
        my $self = shift;
        print "Fennec finished\n";
    }

    1;

=head1 METHODS TO IMPLEMENT

=head2 MUST IMPLEMENT

=over 4

=item handle( $output )

This is how the Fennec runner sends output to the handlers. Every output item
generated will be pased in here. All items will be subclases of
L<Fennec::Output>.

=item fennec_error( @msgs )

Called when fennec encounters an error.

=back

=head2 CAN IMPLEMENT

=over 4

=item start()

Called when fennec starts.

=item finish()

Called when fennec is finished.

=back

=head1 USER DOCUMENTATION

User documentation is for those who wish to use Fennec to write simple tests,
or manage a test suite for a project.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual>

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
