=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::DeveloperManual - Guide to extending or contributing to Fennec.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=head1 CHAPTERS

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::Assertions>

Writing custom assertion libraries.

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::Workflows>

Writing custom workflows.

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::Collectors>

Writing custom result handlers.

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::TBAssertions>

Writing custom collectors.

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::Files>

Writing custom file types.

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual::Handlers>

Writing custom wrappers around L<Test::Builder> tools.

=back

=head1 USER DOCUMENTATION

User documentation is for those who wish to use Fennec to write simple tests,
or manage a test suite for a project.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual>

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
