=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::UserManual - User Manual for Fennec

=head1 DECRIPTION

This manual covers the ins and outs of writing tests in L<Fennec>, as well as
managing an entire test suite with L<Fennec>.

=head1 CHAPTERS

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::Overview>

The summary of Fennec's systems and capabilities.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::Tests>

Simple examples of different Fennec tools and workflows.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::Standalone>

How to write self-contained Fennec test files.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::TestSuite>

How to use Fennec to better manage your test suite.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::CommandLine>

Command Line tools to aid in debugging tests written with Fennec.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::Running>

Extra information on how to run Fennec tests.

=item L<Fennec::UserManual::Vim>

Tools, functions, and rc files for those who use Vim to write tests with
Fennec.

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
