=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::Manual::Standalone - Writing stand-alone fennec tests.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is documentation for a standalone test, that is a test that does not
require anything outside each test file. This is perfectly acceptable, but not
ideal. You should also read L<Fennec::Manual::Tests> for more information on
writing Fennec tests.

A consequence of standalone tests is a loss of parallelization, and the
overhead of loading fennec for each standlone test. When fennec is used to
manage a suite it is loaded only once, and it can parallelize running of both
test files and test groups.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 t/mystandalone.t

    #!/usr/bin/perl;
    package TEST::MyStandaloneTest;
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use Fennec::Standalone;

    use_or_skip 'Module::Name';

    tests hello_world_group {
        ok( 1, "Hello world" );
    }

    done_testing();

=head2 Breakdown

=over 4

=item package TEST::MyStandaloneTest;

Fennec tests must all be contained inside test packages, they will be used as
objects.

=item use Fennec::Standalone;

Use the standalone fennec package. You can specify any options L<Fennec> will
accept. You can also configure the temporary runner that will be used. B<Note>
none of these options are required, reasonable defaults will be chosen in most
cases.

    use Fennec::Standalone
        random    => $bool,
        sort      => $bool,
        asserts   => \@list,
        workflows => \@list,
        meta      => { ... },
        runner    => {
            collector => 'Files',
            cull_delay => .01,
            handlers => [qw/ TAP /],
            parallel_files => 2,
            parallel_tests => 2,
        };

=item tests name { ... }

See L<Fennec::UserManual::Tests>

=item done_testing()

Fennec runs your test groups and workflows after the package is loaded. In
normal Fennec tests done_testing() is not necessary. However in Standalone
tests fennec needs a trigger to tell it that the workflows are ready to be run.

=back

=head1 USER DOCUMENTATION

User documentation is for those who wish to use Fennec to write simple tests,
or manage a test suite for a project.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual>

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
