=pod

=head1 NAME

Fennec::UserManual::Vim - Vim rc files and tools provided with Fennec.

=head1 Files

All vim files are stored in shared/vim in the distribution.

=head2 functions.vim

functions.vim contains vim functions that are useful when working with fennec
tests. Currently there is only 1 function.

=over 4

=item RunFennecLine()

This will run the testgroup on the current line in the current testfile. Fennec
will make its best guess as to which testset is on which line. There is ticket
in place to improve fennecs guesses.

http://github.com/exodist/Fennec/issues#issue/39

=back

=head2 vimrc

This is an example vimrc file that sources functions.vim and binds keys to
runnign fennec tests. This file can be directly lnked to the fennec dist root
directory. Anywhere else it will have to be modified to have the path to
functions.vim

Bindings:

=over 4

=item <f8>

This will run the test on the current line only.

=item <f10>

This will run every test in the current file only.

=back

=head1 USER DOCUMENTATION

User documentation is for those who wish to use Fennec to write simple tests,
or manage a test suite for a project.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::UserManual>

=back

=head1 DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION

Developer documentation is for those who wish to extend Fennec, or contribute
to overall Fennec development.

=over 4

=item L<Fennec::DeveloperManual>

=back

=head1 API DOCUMENTATION

API Documentation covers object internals. See the POD within each individual
module.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl licence.

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
